Lab: Google Cloud Fundamentals: Getting Started with BigQuery

Objectives:

In this lab, you learn how to perform the following tasks:

	- Load data from Cloud Storage into BigQuery.

	- Perform a query on the data in BigQuery.
	
	
Step 1: 

	- sign in to your lab to get started.
	- Accept all terms and conditons 
	

Step 2: 

	- Load data from Cloud Storage into BigQuery. 
	
			1.	Go to "Navigation menu" and click.  click "BigQuery" then click Done.
			
			2.	Select your project in the Resources section, and
			 then click on CREATE DATASET on the right.
			 
			3.	In the Create Dataset dialog, for Dataset ID, type logdata.
			
			4.	Select the continent closest to the region your project was created in. click Create dataset.
			
			5.	Create a new table in the logdata to store the data from the CSV file.
			
			6.	Click on Create Table. On the Create Table page, in the Source section.

	- For create Table From, choose Google Cloud Storage and type "gs://cloud-training/gcpfci/access_log.csv". 
	
	- Verify the format of the file is csv. 
	
	- In the Destination section:
	
			1.  For Dataset name, leave logdata selected.
			2. 	For Table name, type accesslog.
			3. 	For Table type, Native table should be selected.
			4.	Under Schema section, for Auto detect check the Schema and input Parameters.
			5.	Accept the remaining default values and click Create Table.
			      BigQuery creates a load job to create the table and upload data into the table.
			6.	(Optional) To track job progress, click Job History.
			7.	When the load job is complete, click logdata > accesslog.
			8.	On the table details page, click Details to view the table properties, and then click Preview to view the table data.


step 3:
	- Perform a query on the data using the BigQuery web UI	
	
		1. Open "Query editor" window.
			
			type this command : 
								sselect int64_field_6 as hour, count(*) as hitcount from logdata.accesslog
								group by hour
								order by hour
			
			Click "RUN"
			
Step 4: 
	- Perform a query on the data using the bq command
		
		1. On the Google Console, click Activate Cloud Shell located on the right top. 
		
		2. Click continue to accept
		
		3. type this command: 
		
						bq query "select string_field_10 as request, 
						count(*) as requestcount from logdata.accesslog group by request order by requestcount desc"
						
		
		

			
	

				

